How containers works

Container is a place where we get an isolated environment for a application to run.

Isolation means, it will get its own process owm memory and place to run(Any of this proces/memory/place cannot be shared by other containers)

In general in OS we will be ahving userspaces. Here each container is one user space. So i can get the port 80 in each of the container

For example in my apachetomcat container prot 80 is 9000 in my OS, againt port 80 in my ingenix container is 9001 in my OS. i can access those ports by using my 
OS ports(9000,9001)

To get the more clarity watch the vedio "DevOps Online Class 0n 10th Feb"

Centos os linex flavour.

Three importent concepts in container creation or container controll is 
1. Namespaces
2. cgroups
3. capabilities

Docker will follow the Kernal Namespace concept

Docker relays on kernal version of linex.
Docker will not intract with centos/ubuntu insted it will directly intract with kernal itself.
thats whydocker will behave the same in any flavour if linex.

Docker container will have a processID and all the processes with in the container will be treated as the child process for the parent process.

Centos PID
	Conteainer 1 (PID is 3)
			Process wihch run the container (PID 3.1)
			Process wihch run the container (PID 3.2)
			Process wihch run the container (PID 3.3)
	Conteainer 2 (PID is 4)
			Process wihch run the container (PID 4.1)
			Process wihch run the container (PID 4.2)
			Process wihch run the container (PID 4.3)
	Conteainer 3 (PID is 5)
			Process wihch run the container (PID 5.1)
			Process wihch run the container (PID 5.2)
			Process wihch run the container (PID 5.3)

we cannt kill the other process containers

Namespaces

The PID Namespace
The NET Namespace
The MNT Namespace
The USER Namespace

Other concent is Control Groups (cgroups)

cgroups will control the memory space of your container.
I want my container to run on 512MB-1GB. but not bayond that memory that i can achieve by using the containers.
Even we can increase teh memory while running the container

We have another concept called capabilities to give the access to the user. (This is like access controll)