Ansible is a configuaration management tool.

It uses push mechanisim, means main server will push all the changes to the nodes. 

Advantages: 

It is agent less. (no other s/w is required to run in clint mechine)
Declarative code
Number moduels 
It uses pythan. (if you want to change anything in code level you need to know pythan)
It is with RedHat. (We will get the satable product as well as support) 

Disadvantages:

It is agent less (Some times it is disadvantage)
It is for linex (Very less in windows)

Ansible can read yaml format.

Terminology: 

PlayBooks(Will have multiple plays)
Plays(Will have multiple Tasks)
Tasks(WIll run one module)
Module

To unable the password authentication inseted of key you can run the below script in the server 
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/carreerit/altus/master/vm-init.sh
Above script includes basic linex and firewall, installing basic packages and it also enable password login(It will prompt for the password while installing)


To login to the server using password goto putty or superputty or gitbash and give the servername like root@id and it wll prompt for the password.

Installing the Ansible.

Installing RPM (Generic installation).

#yum install ansible -y -- will install the ansible

Goto ansible docs, where we can find the RPM installation process.

Inventary:

usually companied maintain the list in excel.

List of servers (List of servers in which we want to perform the operations) see the inventory file

One way to execute the curl command, 

#base < (curl -s URL (https://raw.githubusercontent.com/carreerit/altus/master/vm-init.sh))

-- here -s is really importend, it will hide the downloading percentage display from the console.

#ansible -i inventory all -u root -k -m ping

Above command wil run the ping command and display the pong responce if it is able to connect the host mechine and 
pythan is installed in the host mechine.

-i -- provide the inventory file name.
-u -- user name to connect the host mechine.
-k -- will prompt for the passwoed to connect the host mechine.
-m -- name of the module to run on host mechine, here we ran ping module.

Same thing we can connect using the key file using the below syntax.

#ansible -i inventory all -u srini --private-key=srini.pem -m ping (Here the order of parameters is not at all importent)
-i -- provide the inventory file name.
-u -- user name to connect the host mechine.
--private-key -- provide the provate key file name including path(if it is not in the current directory).pem
-m -- name of the module to run on host mechine, here we ran ping module.

Lets try to use the other module "shall"

#ansible -i inventory all -u srini --private-key=srini.pem -m shell -a uptime

-m -- here we used the shall module
-a -- arguments to the shell module (here we run the uptime command int the host mechines)
